[Music]
okay nature-lovers here's one for you
what to do when you see a snake what
there's something else to do other than
jump out of your skin and scream like
Jamie Lee Curtis and Halloween
oh well unexpectedly coming face-to-face
with a snake can be a scary experience
but how can you tell if it's venomous
and what should you do if it bites you
for the answers to these questions and
more just keep on watching
hey it's solely a video but first be
sure to hit that subscribe button and
ring the notification bell to join us on
the bright side now snakes can either be
venomous or non-venomous non-venomous
snakes don't have poison in their teeth
which means their bite isn't extremely
dangerous for your health you should
still see a doctor though just so they
can take care of the wound and make sure
that everything's okay venomous snakes
on the other hand have toxic venom in
their fangs that can lead to serious
health problems and even death if it
gets in your system but how can you
distinguish the two especially if you're
running away don't worry
there are several clear signals that can
help you here here's number one look at
its head one of the most obvious signs
of a poisonous snake is its triangular
head although not all venomous snakes
have it their necks are usually
distinctly skinnier than their heads
non-venomous snakes on the other hand
tend to have round heads that are more
continuous with the rest of their body
number 2 pay attention to its pupils
like you're gonna get that close now
hang with me here most venomous snakes
have elliptical and vertical pupils
well non-venomous snakes have round ones
however there are still some exceptions
to this rule you should know about
non-venomous snakes can easily change
the shape of their pupils in dangerous
situations to look more powerful and
frightening to their opponent
there are some extremely venomous snakes
with round pupils like the famous black
mamba or Cobra so don't rely on this
factor alone when trying to identify the
type of snake you're dealing with no
kidding
number three examine the space between
its eyes yeah like you're gonna get real
close venomous snakes have a little
advantage over their non-venomous peers
when it comes to hunting they've got a
heat sensitive pit that helps them
locate their prey through infrared
radiation it is kind of cool known as a
Pitt Oregon it's usually located between
their eyes or nostrils so look out for
it
if you have time number four note its
color and behavior poisonous snakes are
often more vibrant both in their
coloring and behavior if you see a
beautiful bright colored snake chances
are that it is in fact venomous there
are some exceptions here as well like
scarlet king snakes and milk snakes
they're very colorful reptiles but
they're not poisonous at all as for
their behavior venomous snakes are known
to hiss and be quite aggressive right
off the bat number five
observe its tail hey observe my tail as
I'm running away another important
difference in venomous snakes appearance
is their tail more specifically it's the
pattern of scales on it that you want to
pay attention to you can always
recognize a venomous snake by a visible
line separating two rows of scales at
the end of its tail if you see a single
row you can sigh with relief this snake
is not venomous number six
beware of the way it swims oh Lord
hey it's wearing floaties some reptile
experts say that a lot of the time
venomous snakes can be recognized while
swimming they prefer to eat their entire
body's visible above the water as
opposed to non-venomous snakes that swim
with their bodies under the water
however other sources claim that this
isn't always the case of course so
whenever you see a water snake don't
forget to pay attention to the other
fact
as well me I'm just getting the heck out
of the water now that you know how to
detect a venomous snake if you come
across one by chance let's see what you
can do to avoid this rendezvous in the
first place
here are some precautionary measures you
can take to minimize your chances of
actually getting closer to a snake
number one snake proof your property
whether you live in the country or
you've got a summer cottage the best way
to keep snakes at bay is to get rid of
their favorite hiding places tall grass
and fallen branches keep your grass cut
in your yard clear of debris spraying an
ammonia solution in the far parts of
your yard will provide additional help
as well snakes can't stand it smell so
they'll stay away from it number two pay
attention to trees and bushes watching
your step in the countryside is key but
don't forget about trees and bushes
since snakes can slither up trees you
might easily be attacked if you're just
casually walking by so be careful and
keep an eye out at all times boy
keeping an eye out might really hurt you
now so let's just say be on the lookout
number three
choose the right shoes yeah snakes do
not prefer crocs for obvious reasons
actually always wear closed toed shoes
whenever you decide to take a walk in
the country or the woods flip-flops
sandals or any other sorts of open-toed
shoes only make you more exposed to an
attack in this situation that's why
they're surely not the wisest choice
number four turn off the lights if you
enjoy camping here's a little trip for
you to avoid snakes cover up all sources
of light as you go to sleep and never
forget to shake your clothes out in the
morning lights and human scent really
attract snakes toward your attention so
eliminating these two factors will help
you stay safe number five never follow a
snake or follow them on twitter and also
unfriend them on facebook
hey there are a lot of cases where
people are bitten simply because of
their curiosity the thing is snakes
rarely attack someone out of the blue
they only do it if they feel threatened
and stalking them will provoke this
reaction kind of like people do so the
further you stay away from the snake the
better now those tips should help you
avoid an unpleasant encounter with a
snake but unfortunately snake bites can
still happen so you should know what to
do in case you've been bitten the first
thing you must do is to call an
ambulance
once that's done try to figure out if it
was a venomous snake that bit you if you
don't remember what it looked like
examine your wound too painful close-set
puncture marks with swollen and pale
skin around them are strong signs that
it was in fact a poisonous snake feeling
nauseous muscle weakness and fever are
obvious signs of poison in your system -
as the ambulance is on its way it's
crucial that you try to stay calm and
don't move panic and movement increase
your heart rate which only helps the
venom spread faster throughout your body
if you can try to keep the affected limb
below your heart this will help slow the
venom down as well if you see any venom
outside of the bite remove it carefully
to ensure that it won't enter your
already damaged skin as for the popular
method of sucking the venom out of the
wound it may not be such a good idea
after all the person trying to suck the
venom out whether it's you or someone
else risks cross contamination through
the mouth the bite wound is full of
venom that can infect the oral tissues
and the mouth is full of bacteria that
can infect the bite this way experts
nowadays usually advise against this
technique which is a good thing because
I am NOT sucking anybody's bite applying
different creeps to your wound is a big
no-no - just like consuming alcohol or
caffeinated drinks these beverages
affect your heart and help the venom
spread faster if you're thirsty go for
water instead it'll keep you hydrated
and how
flush the toxins out of your body which
is a must in this critical situation so
if you're still here through this whole
snaky thing tell us do you know any
other helpful or interesting facts about
snakes
don't tell me just leave it in the
comment section below don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends especially the ones who
don't like snakes and click Subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life